---
title: Best of 2018
date: 2018-12-28 15:11:00 Z
permalink: best-of-2018
---

# Lessons

### Failure is Inevitable

Failure is inevitable. It’s better to fail at what you love than something you compromise to.

In the [“Jim and Andy”](https://www.netflix.com/title/80209608) Netflix documentary, Jim Carrey tells a story about how his Father could’ve done anything in the world but he compromised to taking an accounting job. Years later he was fired from the job and the Careys became homeless.

> “When you compromise and you fail that hurts a lot more than failing at what you love. You can fail at what you don’t love so you might as well do what you love. There’s really no choice to be made.” - Jim Carrey

#### What’s Next

How do you choose what book to read next?

Simple. Figure out what information you need to get to the next level in life. Prioritize the books you think have this information.

I find that this simple advice can apply to almost any situation. What should you do next? Prioritize getting the info, skills, people, resources… that help you get to the next level.

#### Don’t Be a Donkey

Around Summer time, I found myself pursuing several different directions. I was stressed and felt like I was going no where.

A friend of mine pointed me to [Derek Sivers “Don’t be a donkey”](https://sivers.org/donkey)

> Buridan’s donkey is standing halfway between a pile of hay and a bucket of water. It keeps looking left and right, trying to decide between hay and water. Unable to decide, it eventually falls over and dies of hunger and thirst.

This was an important lesson for me. We can’t do everything all at once. It’s better to focus on one thing at a time.

#### Determination Trumps All

Being a good person, eating healthy, abstaining from drugs/alcohol and reading all the self help books in the world will not make you successful.

Sheer determination to succeed and stick with a thing day in and day out for many years is all that matters. If you have this, you can screw up just about everything else.

Don’t believe me?

* The [most successful investor](https://www.thestreet.com/story/14289574/1/warren-buffett-s-junk-food-diet-has-gotten-him-to-87-should-you-follow-it.html) in the world eats fast food every day.

* The [most successful airline entrepreneur ](http://fortune.com/2013/01/14/southwests-herb-kelleher-still-crazy-after-all-these-years/)drinks whiskey and smokes every night.

* The [president of the united states and leader of the free world](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/01/28/upshot/donald-trump-twitter-insults.html) is not a nice guy.

### Get Lucky by Moving Forward

Success has very little to do with where you start in the game. The most important thing is that you just get started.

Most of Jeff Bezos success comes from AWS, not Amazon.com. AWS had nothing todo with Jeff’s original idea. He stumbled upon the problem while building Amazon.

Li Ka-Shing made most of his success from Hong Kong real estate. He started out manufacturing plastic flowers. He got into real estate development because he needed a new factory.

That’s how success works. You get in the game, execute a strategy and opportunities present themself as you move forward.